
　　In order to further improve the treatment of novel coronavirus pneumonia (COVID-19), we organized experts to revise the contents of the "Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Treatment Protocol (Trial Version 8 Revised)" and formed the "Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Treatment Protocol (Trial Version 9)".

　　I. Etiological characteristics

　　The novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) belongs to the β genus of coronaviruses with an envelope and round or oval-shaped particles with a diameter of 60-140 nm. It has five essential genes targeting four structural proteins, namely, nucleoprotein (N), viral envelope (E), matrix protein (M) and spinosynuclein (S), and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp). Nucleoprotein (N) wraps around the RNA genome to form a nucleocapsid, surrounded by the viral envelope (E), which contains proteins such as matrix protein (M) and stabile protein (S). The stinger proteins enter the cells by binding angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE-2). When isolated in vitro, the novel coronavirus was found in human respiratory epithelial cells in about 96 hours, while it took about 4-6 days to isolate in Vero E6 and Huh-7 cell lines.

　　Like other viruses, the novel coronavirus genome is subject to mutations, some of which affect the biological properties of the virus, such as changes in the affinity of the S protein for ACE-2, which will affect the ability of the virus to invade cells, replicate, spread, the production of antibodies during recovery and after vaccination, and the ability to neutralize antibody drugs.

　　This has led to widespread concern. The World Health Organization (WHO) has identified five "variants of concern" (VOC), namely Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta and Omicron. The Omicron strain has now replaced the Delta strain as the predominant prevalent strain. The available evidence suggests that the Omicron strain is more transmissible than the Delta strain and less pathogenic. The diagnostic accuracy of PCR tests routinely used in China has not been affected, but may have reduced the neutralizing effect of some monoclonal antibody drugs.

　　Coronavirus is sensitive to UV light and heat. Lipid solvents such as 56°C for 30 minutes, ether, 75% ethanol, chlorinated disinfectants, peroxyacetic acid and chloroform are effective in inactivating the virus, while chlorhexidine is not effective.

　　Second, epidemiological characteristics

　　(i) Sources of infection.

　　The main source of infection is the novel coronavirus infection, which becomes infectious during the incubation period and is more contagious within 5 days after the onset of the disease.

　　(ii) transmission channels.

　　1. Transmission by respiratory droplets and close contact is the main route of transmission.

　　2. Spread by aerosols in a relatively closed environment.

　　3. Infection can also be caused by contact with objects contaminated with the virus.

　　(iii) susceptible population.

　　The population is generally susceptible. Some immunity can be obtained after infection or after vaccination with the new coronavirus.

　　Third, pathological changes

　　The following are the major organ pathologic changes and novel coronavirus test results (excluding underlying disease lesions) in early cases of the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak.

　　(i) Lungs.

　　In the early and milder lesions, plasma and fibrin exudation and hyaline membrane formation were seen in the alveolar lumen, and inflammatory cells were predominantly monocytes and lymphocytes; capillary congestion in the alveolar septum. As the lesion progresses and worsens, large numbers of monocytes/macrophages and fibrin fill the alveolar lumen; type II alveolar epithelial cells proliferate, some cells are shed, and multinucleated giant cells are seen, occasionally with red-stained inclusion bodies. Pulmonary vasculitis, thrombosis (mixed thrombus, hyaline thrombus), and thromboembolism are easily seen. The epithelium of the bronchial mucosa at all levels of the lung is partially detached, and exudate and mucus are seen in the lumen. Small bronchioles and fine bronchioles are prone to mucus plug formation. The lung tissue is prone to focal hemorrhage, and hemorrhagic infarction, bacterial and/or fungal infections are seen. Some alveoli are hyperinflated, with alveolar septum rupture or cystic cavity formation. In cases of longer duration, sarcoidosis of alveolar lumen exudates and interstitial fibrosis of the lung are seen.

　　Coronavirus particles were seen in the cytoplasm of the bronchial mucosa epithelium and type II alveolar epithelial cells on electron microscopy. Immunohistochemical staining showed that some bronchial mucosal epithelium, alveolar epithelial cells and macrophages showed positive immunostaining for novel coronavirus antigens and nucleic acid detection.

　　(ii) Spleen, hilar lymph nodes and bone marrow.

　　The spleen is reduced in size. The white marrow is atrophied, the number of lymphocytes is reduced and some cells are necrotic; the red marrow is congested and focally hemorrhagic, macrophages are proliferated and phagocytosis is visible in the spleen

　　Phenomenon; anaemic infarction of the spleen is easily seen. The number of lymphocytes in the lymph nodes was reduced and necrosis was seen. Immunohistochemical staining shows a decrease in both CD4+ T and CD8+ T cells in the spleen and lymph nodes. Lymph node tissue may be positive for novel coronavirus nucleic acid, and macrophage immunostaining for novel coronavirus antigen may be positive. Bone marrow hematopoietic cells are either hyperplastic or reduced in number, with an increased granulocyte-to-red ratio; occasional phagocytosis is seen.

　　(iii) Heart and blood vessels.

　　Some myocardial cells may show degeneration and necrosis, interstitial congestion and edema, and a few monocytes, lymphocytes and/or neutrophil infiltration. Novel coronavirus nucleic acid tests are occasionally positive.

　　Endothelial cell detachment, endothelial or whole-layer inflammation is seen in small vessels in major parts of the body; mixed intravascular thrombosis, thromboembolism and infarction in corresponding areas are seen. The microvessels of the major organs are prone to hyaline thrombosis.

　　(iv) Liver and gallbladder.

　　Hepatocyte degeneration and focal necrosis with neutrophil infiltration; hepatic blood sinusoidal congestion, lymphocyte and monocyte infiltration and microthrombosis in the confluent area. The gallbladder was highly filled and the epithelium of the gallbladder mucosa was detached. The liver and gallbladder were positive for novel coronavirus nucleic acid.

　　(v) Kidney.

　　Glomerular capillaries are congested, with occasional segmental fibrinoid necrosis; proteinous exudate is seen in the lumen of the glomerulus. The epithelium of the proximal tubule is degenerated, partially necrotic and detached, and the distal tubule is prone to tubular pattern. The renal interstitium was congested, and microthrombosis was seen. Renal tissue is occasionally positive for novel coronavirus nucleic acid.

　　(vi) Other organs.

　　Brain tissue is congested and edematous, with some neuronal degeneration, ischemic changes and loss, and phagocytosis and satellite phenomena are seen. Perivascular interstitial mononuclear cell and lymphocyte infiltration may be seen. Focal necrosis is seen in the adrenal glands. The epithelium of esophageal, gastric and intestinal mucosa is degenerated, necrotic and detached to varying degrees, with infiltration of monocytes and lymphocytes in the lamina propria and submucosa. Cortical cell degeneration, focal hemorrhage and necrosis were seen in the adrenal glands. The testes showed varying degrees of reduced spermatogenic cell numbers and degeneration of Sertoli and Leydig cells.

　　Novel coronaviruses have been detected in the nasopharynx and gastrointestinal mucosa and in organs such as the testes and salivary glands.

　　IV. Clinical characteristics

　　(A) Clinical manifestations.

　　The incubation period is 1 to 14 days, mostly 3 to 7 days.

　　Fever, dry cough and weakness are the main manifestations. Some patients may have nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat, decreased or lost sense of smell and taste, conjunctivitis, myalgia and diarrhea as the main manifestations. Severely ill patients tend to develop respiratory distress and/or hypoxemia a week after the onset of the disease, which may rapidly progress to acute respiratory distress syndrome, septic shock, uncorrectable metabolic acidosis and coagulation dysfunction, and multi-organ failure in severe cases. Very few patients may also have central nervous system involvement and ischemic necrosis of the extremities. It is worth noting that heavy and critically ill patients may have moderate to low fever or even no significant fever during the course of the disease.

　　Patients with mild forms may present with low-grade fever, mild malaise, smell and taste disturbances, and no pneumonia. Novel coronavirus infection may also be asymptomatic. Vaccinated patients and those infected with Omicron strain are mainly asymptomatic and have mild symptoms. Those with clinical symptoms mainly show symptoms of upper respiratory tract infection such as low to moderate fever, dry throat, sore throat, nasal congestion, and runny nose.

　　Most patients have a good prognosis, but a few are critically ill, mostly in the elderly, those with chronic underlying diseases, late pregnancy and perinatal women, and obese people.

　　Some children and newborns have atypical symptoms, such as vomiting, diarrhea and other gastrointestinal symptoms, or only poor response and shortness of breath. Very few children may have multisystemic inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C), which may be similar to Kawasaki disease or atypical Kawasaki disease, toxic shock syndrome or macrophage activation syndrome, mostly in the recovery period. The main manifestations are fever with rash, nonsuppurative conjunctivitis, mucosal inflammation, hypotension or shock, coagulation disorders, and acute gastrointestinal symptoms. Once it occurs, the condition can deteriorate sharply in a short period of time.

　　(ii) Laboratory tests.

　　1. General inspection.

　　Some patients may have increased liver enzymes, lactate dehydrogenase, myokinase, myoglobin, troponin and ferritin. Most patients have elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and sedimentation, and normal calcitoninogen (PCT). In severe and critically ill patients, elevated D-dimer, progressive decrease in peripheral blood lymphocytes, and elevated inflammatory factors are seen.

　　2. Pathogenic and serological examination.

　　(1) Pathogenic examination: Nucleic acid amplification assay is used to detect novel coronavirus nucleic acid in nasal, oropharyngeal swabs, sputum and other lower respiratory secretions, and stool specimens. Nucleic acid testing can be affected by the course of the disease, specimen collection, testing process, testing reagents and other factors, in order to improve the accuracy of testing, specimen collection should be standardized, and specimens should be sent for testing as soon as possible after collection.

　　(2) Serological examination: positive IgM and IgG antibodies specific for the novel coronavirus, with a low rate of positivity within 1 week of onset.

　　False positive antibody tests may occur due to the positive judgment value of the reagents themselves, or the presence of interfering substances in the body (rheumatoid factor, heterophilic antibodies, complement, lysozyme, etc.), or specimen reasons (hemolysis of the specimen, bacterial contamination of the specimen, prolonged storage of the specimen, incomplete coagulation of the specimen, etc.). In general, serological tests alone are not used as a basis for diagnosis, but need to be combined with epidemiological history, clinical manifestations and underlying diseases for comprehensive judgment.

　　(C) Chest imaging.

　　In the early stage, there are multiple small patchy shadows and interstitial changes, which are obvious in the outer lung zone. In MIS-C, enlarged heart shadow and pulmonary edema are seen in patients with cardiac insufficiency.

　　V. Diagnosis

　　(i) Diagnostic principles.

　　According to the comprehensive analysis of epidemiological history, clinical manifestations, laboratory tests, etc.

　　Making the diagnosis. A positive nucleic acid test for novel coronavirus is the primary criterion for confirmation of the diagnosis. For those who have not received the novel coronavirus vaccine, the novel coronavirus-specific antibody test can be used as a reference for diagnosis. For those who have received the novel coronavirus vaccine and those who have been previously infected with the novel coronavirus, in principle, antibodies are not used as a basis for diagnosis.

　　(ii) Diagnostic criteria.

　　1. Suspected cases.

　　Any 1 of the following epidemiologic histories and any 2 of the clinical manifestations are present.

　　If there is no clear epidemiological history, 3 of the clinical manifestations are met; or any 2 of the clinical manifestations are met, and the specific IgM antibody to the novel coronavirus is positive (recent vaccination against the novel coronavirus is not considered as a reference indicator).

　　(1) Epidemiological history

　　① A history of travel or residence in the community where the case was reported within 14 days prior to the onset of illness.

　　② History of contact with a person with novel coronavirus infection within 14 days prior to the onset of the disease.

　　(iii) exposure to patients with fever or respiratory symptoms in the community from which the case was reported within 14 days prior to onset.

　　④ Aggregate onset (2 or more cases of fever and/or respiratory symptoms in a small area such as home, office, school class, etc. within 14 days).

　　(2) Clinical manifestations

　　① Clinical manifestations associated with novel coronavirus pneumonia such as fever and/or respiratory symptoms.

　　② with the above-mentioned imaging features of novel coronavirus pneumonia.

　　③The total white blood cell count was normal or decreased and the lymphocyte count was normal or decreased in the early stage of the disease.

　　2. Confirmed cases.

　　Suspected cases with one of the following pathogenic or serological evidence.

　　(1) Positive nucleic acid test for a novel coronavirus.

　　(2) The novel coronavirus-specific IgM and IgG antibodies were positive in those who did not receive the novel coronavirus vaccine.

　　VI. Clinical typing

　　(i) Lightweight.

　　Clinical symptoms were mild, and imaging did not show pneumonia.

　　(ii) General type.

　　With the above clinical manifestations, pneumonia is seen on imaging.

　　(iii) Heavy duty.

　　Adults meet any of the following.

　　1. the presence of shortness of breath, RR ≥ 30 beats/min.

　　2. resting state, finger oxygen saturation ≤ 93% when inhaling air.

　　3. Arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2)/inhaled oxygen concentration (FiO2) ≤ 300mmHg

　　(1 mmHg = 0.133 kPa).

　　PaO2/FiO2 should be corrected for high altitudes (over 1000 m) according to the following formula: PaO2/FiO2 x [760/atmosphere (mmHg)].

　　4. Progressive worsening of clinical symptoms and lung imaging showing significant progression of >50% of the lesion within 24-48 hours.

　　The child meets any of the following.

　　1. persistent high fever for more than 3 days.

　　2. shortness of breath (<2 months of age, RR ≥ 60 beats/min; 2-12 months of age, RR

　　3. resting state, finger oxygen saturation ≤ 93% when inhaling air.

　　4. assisted breathing (nasal flapping, trigeminal sign).

　　5. The presence of drowsiness and convulsions.

　　6. Refusal of food or feeding difficulties with signs of dehydration.

　　(iv) Critical type.

　　Those who meet one of the following conditions.

　　1. the presence of respiratory failure and the need for mechanical ventilation.

　　2. The presence of shock.

　　3. The combination of other organ failure requires ICU monitoring treatment.

　　VII. Heavy/critical high-risk groups

　　(i) Older people older than 60 years old.

　　(ii) Those with underlying diseases such as cardiovascular diseases (including hypertension), chronic lung diseases, diabetes, chronic liver and kidney diseases, and tumors.

　　(iii) Immune deficiency (e.g., AIDS patients, long-term use of corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive drugs resulting in a state of hypoimmunity).

　　(iv) obesity (body mass index ≥ 30).

　　(v) Late pregnancy and perinatal women.

　　(vi) Heavy smokers.

　　VIII. Heavy/Critical Early Warning Indicators

　　(i) Adults.

　　Changes in the following indicators should alert for deterioration.

　　1. Progressive worsening of hypoxemia or respiratory distress.

　　2. deterioration of tissue oxygenation indicators (e.g., oxygen saturation, oxygenation index) or progressive elevation of lactate.

　　3. progressive decrease in peripheral blood lymphocyte count or progressive increase in inflammatory factors such as interleukin 6 (IL-6), CRP, ferritin, etc.

　　4. Significant elevation of coagulation-related indicators such as D-dimer.

　　5. Chest imaging showed significant progression of the lung lesion.

　　(ii) Children.

　　1. Increased respiratory rate.

　　2. poor mental responsiveness and drowsiness.

　　3. Progressive elevation of lactic acid.

　　4. Significant elevation of inflammatory factors such as CRP, PCT and ferritin.

　　5. imaging showing bilateral or multilobar infiltrates, pleural effusions or rapid progression of lesions in a short period of time.

　　6. have underlying diseases (congenital heart disease, bronchopulmonary dysplasia, respiratory malformations, abnormal hemoglobin, severe malnutrition, etc.), immune deficiency or hypo-immunity (long-term use of immunosuppressive drugs) and neonates.

　　IX. Differential diagnosis

　　(a) The mild manifestations of novel coronavirus pneumonia need to be differentiated from upper respiratory tract infections caused by other viruses.

　　(b) Novel coronavirus pneumonia is mainly distinguished from other known viral pneumonia such as influenza virus, adenovirus, respiratory syncytial virus and Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection, especially in suspected cases, rapid antigen detection, multiplex PCR nucleic acid detection and other methods to detect common respiratory pathogens.

　　(iii) Also differentiate from non-infectious diseases such as vasculitis, dermatomyositis and mechanized pneumonia.

　　(iv) When rash and mucosal damage appear in pediatric patients, they need to be differentiated from Kawasaki disease.

　　(v) Close contacts with novel coronavirus-infected individuals should be promptly tested for novel coronavirus pathogenesis even if they test positive for common respiratory pathogens.

　　X. Case finding and reporting

　　Medical institutions at all levels should immediately collect specimens for nucleic acid testing or transfer them in a closed loop to a higher level medical institution for nucleic acid testing if they are found to meet the case definition of a suspected case or a positive result of a new coronavirus antigen test, and isolate them in a single room. Those with positive nucleic acid test results should be managed in centralized isolation or sent to a designated hospital for treatment, and reported directly to the network in accordance with regulations.

　　Two consecutive negative novel coronavirus nucleic acid tests (at least 24 hours apart from sampling) will rule out the diagnosis of a suspected case.

　　XI. Treatment

　　(a) Determine the isolation management and treatment sites according to the condition.

　　1. Minor cases are managed in centralized isolation, and the relevant centralized isolation sites cannot isolate incoming personnel, close contacts and other people at the same time. During the isolation management should do a good job of symptomatic treatment and disease monitoring, such as aggravation of the disease, should be transferred to a designated hospital for treatment.

　　2. General, heavy and critical cases and cases with heavy and high-risk factors should be treated centrally in designated hospitals, where heavy and critical cases should be treated in ICU as early as possible, and patients with high-risk factors and a tendency to be seriously ill should also be treated in ICU.

　　(ii) General treatment.

　　1. Bed rest, strengthen supportive treatment, ensure adequate energy and nutrition intake; pay attention to water and electrolyte balance, maintain the stability of the internal environment.

　　2. Closely monitor vital signs, especially finger oxygen saturation at rest and after activity, etc.

　　3. Monitor routine blood, urine, CRP, biochemical parameters (liver enzymes, cardiac enzymes, renal function, etc.), coagulation, arterial blood gas analysis, chest imaging, etc. according to the condition. If possible, inflammatory factor testing is available.

　　4. Provide standardized and effective oxygen therapy according to the condition, including nasal catheter, mask oxygen and transnasal high-flow oxygen therapy.

　　Antimicrobial drug therapy: Avoid blind or inappropriate use of antimicrobial drugs, especially the combination of broad-spectrum antibacterial drugs.

　　(iii) Antiviral therapy.

　　1. PF-07321332/ritonavir tablets (Paxlovid). Suitable for people who are

　　Adults and adolescents (12-17 years of age, weight ≥40 kg) with mild and normal disease within 5 days of onset and with high risk factors for progression to severe disease. Dosage: 300 mg PF-07321332 with 100 mg ritonavir every 12 hours for 5 days. Read the instructions carefully before use and do not combine with drugs such as pethidine and ranolazine that are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and whose elevated plasma concentrations can cause serious and/or life-threatening adverse reactions.

　　2. Monoclonal antibody: Ambavirumab/romisil monoclonal injection. The combination is used for the treatment of adults and adolescents (12-17 years of age, weight ≥40 kg) with mild and normal forms of the disease who are at high risk for progression to severe disease. Dosage: The two drugs are administered at a dose of 1000 mg each and are diluted in 100 ml of saline before administration by sequential intravenous infusion at a rate of no more than 4 ml/min, with 100 ml of saline flushed between doses. Patients were monitored clinically during the infusion and observed for at least 1 hour after the infusion was completed.

　　3. Intravenous injection of COVID-19 human immunoglobulin. It can be used early in the course of the disease in patients with high risk factors, high viral load and rapid disease progression. The dose is 100mg/kg for light duty, 200mg/kg for normal duty, and 400mg/kg for heavy duty, administered intravenously and may be reinfused up to 5 times the next day depending on the patient's improvement.

　　4. Recovery plasma for recovered patients. It can be used early in the course of the disease in patients with high risk factors, high viral load and rapid disease progression. The infusion dose is 200~500ml (4~5ml/kg), depending on the individual patient and the viral load, etc.

　　Determine whether to reinfuse.

　　(iv) Immunotherapy.

　　1. Glucocorticoids. For heavy and critically ill patients with progressive deterioration of oxygenation index, rapid imaging progress, and over-activation of the organism's inflammatory response, use glucocorticosteroids for a short period of time (no more than 10 days) as appropriate, recommending dexamethasone 5 mg/day or methylprednisolone 40 mg/day, and avoiding prolonged and high doses of glucocorticosteroids to reduce side effects.

　　2. Interleukin 6 (IL-6) inhibitor: tolimumab. It can be tried in heavy and critical cases with elevated IL-6 levels in laboratory tests. Dosage: First dose 4-8mg/kg, recommended dose 400mg, saline diluted to 100ml, infusion time >1 hour; if the first dose is not effective, the first dose can be applied in 12 hours.

　　The maximum number of doses should not exceed 800 mg.

　　(v) Anticoagulation therapy.

　　For patients with high risk factors for severe disease and rapid disease progression in the general, heavy and critical categories, therapeutic doses of low molecular heparin or normal heparin may be given in the absence of contraindications. In case of thromboembolic events, treat according to the appropriate guidelines.

　　(vi) Prone position treatment.

　　Patients with high risk factors for severe disease and rapid progression in the general, heavy and critical categories should be treated in a standardized prone position for a minimum of 12 hours per day.

　　(vii) Psychological intervention.

　　Patients often suffer from stress and anxiety and should receive psychological support and, if necessary, medication.

　　(H) Heavy and critical support treatment.

　　1. Treatment principles: Based on the above treatment, active prevention and treatment of complications, treatment of underlying diseases, prevention of secondary infections, and timely organ function support.

　　2. Respiratory support.

　　(1) Nasal cannula or mask oxygenation

　　Oxygen therapy should be given immediately to all heavy patients with PaO2/FiO2 below 300 mmHg. After receiving oxygen by nasal cannula or mask, monitor closely for a short period of time (1-2 hours) and if respiratory distress and/or hypoxemia does not improve, use nasal high-flow oxygen therapy (HFNC) or noninvasive ventilation (NIV).

　　(2) Transnasal high-flow oxygen therapy or non-invasive ventilation

　　Patients with PaO2/FiO2 below 200 mmHg should be given transnasal high-flow oxygen therapy (HFNC) or non-invasive ventilation (NIV). Patients receiving HFNC or NIV without contraindications are recommended to be ventilated simultaneously in the prone position, i.e., awake prone ventilation, and the duration of prone treatment should be greater than 12 hours per day.

　　Some patients have a high risk of failure with HFNC or NIV therapy and need to be closely monitored for signs and symptoms. If the condition does not improve after a short period of time (1-2 hours), especially if the hypoxemia does not improve after treatment in the prone position, or if the respiratory frequency, tidal volume, or inspiratory effort is too high, it often indicates that HFNC or NIV treatment is not effective and invasive mechanical ventilation should be performed promptly.

　　(3) Invasive mechanical ventilation

　　In general, tracheal intubation and invasive mechanical ventilation should be considered in patients with PaO2/FiO2 below 150 mmHg, especially in those with significantly enhanced inspiratory effort. However, given the atypical clinical manifestations of hypoxemia in heavy and critically ill patients, whether or not PaO2/FiO2 is achieved should not be considered solely as an indication for tracheal intubation and invasive mechanical ventilation, but should be evaluated in real time in conjunction with the patient's clinical manifestations and organ function. It is worth noting that delayed tracheal intubation can be more harmful.

　　Early and appropriate invasive mechanical ventilation is an important treatment tool for critically ill patients. Implement a lung-protective mechanical ventilation strategy. In patients with moderate to severe acute respiratory distress syndrome or with invasive mechanical ventilation with FiO2 above 50%, pulmonary resuscitation may be used and the decision to perform repeated pulmonary resuscitation maneuvers should be based on the responsiveness of pulmonary resuscitation. It should be noted that some patients with novel coronavirus pneumonia have poor pulmonary retensionability, and excessive PEEP leading to pneumatic injury should be avoided.

　　(4) Airway management

　　To enhance airway humidification, active heated humidifiers are recommended, and loop heated guidewires are used to ensure the humidification effect if available; closed suction is recommended, and tracheoscopic suction is recommended if necessary; active airway contouring therapy, such as vibration sputum removal, high-frequency thoracic oscillation, postural drainage, etc.; passive and active activities are carried out as early as possible under the condition of oxygenation and hemodynamic stability to promote sputum drainage and pulmonary rehabilitation.

　　(5) Extracorporeal membrane pulmonary oxygenation (ECMO)

　　Timing of ECMO initiation. Under optimal mechanical ventilation conditions (FiO2 ≥ 80%, the

　　① PaO2/FiO2 <50 mmHg for more than 3 hours.

　　② PaO2/FiO2 <80mmHg for more than 6 hours.

　　(iii) Arterial blood pH < 7.25 and PaCO2 > 60 mmHg for more than 6 hours and respiratory rate > 35 breaths/min.

　　④ Arterial blood pH < 7.2 and plateau pressure > 30 cmH2O at respiratory rate > 35 breaths/min.

　　ECMO treatment should be initiated as early as possible in critically ill patients who meet the indications for ECMO and have no contraindications to avoid delays that may lead to poor patient prognosis.

　　ECMO mode selection. Veno-venous ECMO (VV-ECMO) is the most common mode when only respiratory support is required; veno-arterial ECMO (VA-ECMO) is used when both respiratory and circulatory support is required; veno-arterial-venous ECMO (VAV-ECMO) can be used when head and arm hypoxia occurs with VA-ECMO. After ECMO, a strict lung-protective pulmonary ventilation strategy is implemented. Recommended initial settings: tidal volume <4-6 ml/kg ideal body weight, plateau pressure ≤25 cmH2O, driving pressure <15 cmH2O, PEEP 5-15 cmH2O, respiratory rate 4-10 breaths/min, FiO2

　　<50%. Patients who have difficulty maintaining oxygenation or have strong inspiratory effort, have significant solidity in the gravity-dependent areas of both lungs, or require airway secretion drainage should be actively ventilated in the prone position.

　　Children's cardiopulmonary compensatory capacity is weaker than that of adults, and they are more sensitive to hypoxia and need to respond to

　　Use more aggressive oxygen therapy and ventilation support strategies than in adults, and indications should be relaxed as appropriate; routine application of pulmonary resuscitation is not recommended.

　　3. Circulatory support: Critical patients may be combined with shock and should be reasonably treated with vasoactive drugs on the basis of adequate fluid resuscitation. If necessary, perform hemodynamic monitoring.

　　4. Acute kidney injury and renal replacement therapy: Critically ill patients may have a combination of acute kidney injury, and the etiology, such as low perfusion and drugs, should be actively sought. While actively correcting the etiology, attention should be paid to maintaining water, electrolyte, acid-base balance. Indications for continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) include: ① hyperkalemia; ② severe acidosis.

　　(iii) Pulmonary edema or water overload where diuretics are ineffective.

　　5. Multisystemic Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C): The principle of treatment is multidisciplinary cooperation, early anti-inflammatory, correction of shock and coagulation dysfunction, organ function support, and anti-infective therapy if necessary. Intravenous gammaglobulin is preferred in the absence of shock

　　(IVIG), 2g/kg, with intensive treatment such as methylprednisolone 1~2mg/kg/day or tolimumab if the condition does not improve; intravenous gammaglobulin (IVIG) combined with methylprednisolone 1~2mg/kg/day is preferred for combined shock; large doses of methylprednisolone shock (10~30mg/kg/day) or immunotherapy such as tolimumab are used for children with refractory severe disease.

　　6. Patients with severe or critical pregnancies: the risk of continuing the pregnancy should be evaluated multidisciplinary and terminated if necessary, with cesarean delivery being the first choice.

　　7. Nutritional support: nutritional risk assessment should be enhanced, enteral nutrition should be preferred, and the protection of

　　The calorie intake is 25~30 kcal/kg/day, protein >1.2g/kg/day, and parenteral nutrition is added if necessary. Intestinal microecological regulators can be used to maintain intestinal microecological balance and prevent secondary bacterial infections.

　　(ix) Chinese medicine treatment.

　　This disease belongs to the category of "epidemic" in Chinese medicine, the cause of the disease is "epidemic hostility", according to the condition, symptoms and climate, etc., each region can refer to the following plan for evidence-based treatment. If the dose is over the pharmacopoeia, it should be used under the guidance of a physician.

　　1. Medical observation period

　　Clinical manifestations 1: Weakness with gastrointestinal discomfort

　　Recommended Chinese medicine: Huo Xiang Zheng Qi Capsules (pills, water, oral liquid) Clinical manifestations 2: Lethargy with fever

　　Recommended Chinese medicines: Jinhua Qingxian Granules, Lianhua Qingfei Capsules (granules), Shufeng Detoxification Capsules (granules)

　　2. Clinical treatment period (confirmed cases)

　　2.1 Clear Lung Detox Soup, Clear Lung Detox Granules

　　Scope of application: Combined with the clinical observation of doctors in many places, it is suitable for light, normal and heavy patients, and can be used in combination with the actual situation of patients in the treatment of critical patients.

　　Basic formula: Ephedra 9g, roasted licorice 6g, almonds 9g, raw gypsum 15

　　30g (first decoction), Gui Zhi 9g, Ze Di 9g, Pig Ling 9g, Atractylodes Macrocephala 9g, Poria 15g, Chai Hu 16g, Scutellaria 6g, Ginger Semen 9g, Ginger 9g, Aster 9g, Winter Flower 9g, Radix et Rhizoma 9g, Sinensis 6g, Yam 12g, Citrus Aurantium 6g, Chen Pi 6g, Huo Xiang 9g.

　　Dosage: Traditional Chinese herbal medicine, decoction with water. Take one payment per day, once in the morning and once in the evening

　　(forty minutes after meals), taken warm, three doses for one course of treatment.

　　If available, you can add half a bowl of rice soup after each dose, and those with dry tongue and fluid deficiency can take more to a bowl. (Note: If the patient does not have fever, the dosage of raw gypsum should be small, and the dosage of raw gypsum can be increased for fever or strong fever). If the symptoms improve but not cured, take the second course of treatment. If the patient has special conditions or other underlying diseases, the second course of treatment can be modified according to the actual situation, and stop the medicine if the symptoms disappear.

　　How to take: Take 2 sachets with boiling water, 2 times a day. The course of treatment is 36 days.

　　2.2 Lightweight

　　(1) Cold and dampness in the lung

　　Clinical manifestations: fever, fatigue, body aches, cough, sputum, chest tightness, breathlessness, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or sticky stools. The tongue is pale, fat and toothed or light red, with white, thick and greasy or putrid coating, and a moist or slippery pulse.

　　Recommended prescription: cold and damp epidemic formula

　　Basic formula: 6g raw ephedra, 15g raw gypsum, 9g almond, 15g Qiangwu, 15g scape seed, 9g Guanzhong, 15g Dilong, 15g Xu Changqing, 15g Huo Xiang, 9g Pelargonium, 15g Cangzhi, 45g Yun Ling, 30g raw Atractylodes, 9g each Jiao Sanxian, 15g Hou Pu, 9g Jiao Betel nut, 9g simmered Cao Guo, 15g ginger.

　　Dosage: 1 dose daily, 600ml in water, divided into 3 doses, 1 in the morning, 1 in the afternoon and 1 in the evening, before meals.

　　The cold-damp epidemic formula is also suitable for patients with the common type.

　　(2) Damp heat in the lungs

　　Clinical manifestations: low fever or no fever, slight chills, fatigue, head and body heaviness, muscle aches, dry cough with little sputum, sore throat, dry mouth with no desire to drink more, or with chest tightness and abdominal constipation, no sweating or poor sweating, or vomiting and nausea, loose stools or sticky and unpleasant stools. The tongue is light red, the coating is white, thick and greasy or thin yellow, and the pulse is smooth or moist.

　　Recommended prescription: Betel nut 10g, Cao Guo 10g, Hou Pu 10g, Zhi Mu 10g, Baicalin 10g, Chai Hu 10g, Radix Paeoniae Alba 10g, Forsythia 15g, Artemisia 10g (later down), Atractylodes macrocephala 10g, Rhizoma Atractylodis Macrocephalae 10g, Radix Glycyrrhiza Uralensis 5g.

　　Dosage: 1 dose daily, 400ml in water, divided into 2 doses, 1 in the morning and 1 in the evening.

　　Recommended Chinese patent medicine: Jinhua Qingxian granules, Lianhua Qingxian capsule (granules) Jinhua Qingxian granules: take with boiling water, 12 sachets once, 3 times a day. The course of treatment is 57 days.

　　Lianhua Qingfei Granules: Take orally. 1 sachet once, 3 times a day. The course of treatment is 710 days.

　　How to take Lianhua Qingfei Capsules: Take orally. Take 4 capsules once, 3 times a day.

　　Acupuncture points recommended for treatment: Hegu, Houxi, Yinlingquan, Taixi, Lung Yu, and Spleen Yu. Acupuncture method: 3 acupoints are selected each time, and the acupuncture is performed by the method of flat tonic and flat diarrhea, and the acupuncture is retained for 30 minutes, once a day.

　　2.3 General type (1) Dampness and toxicity in the lung

　　Clinical manifestations: fever, cough with little sputum, or yellow sputum, shortness of breath, abdominal distension, constipation. The tongue is dark red, with a fat body, yellow greasy or yellow dry coating, and a slippery or smooth pulse.

　　Recommended prescription: Xuanlung and Poison Elimination Formula

　　Basic formula: 6g of Ephedra, 15g of fried bitter almonds, 30g of raw gypsum, 30g of coix seeds, 10g of bran fried atractylodes, 15g of patchouli, 12g of artemisia, 20g of tiger scepter, 30g of verbena, 30g of rhizome, 15g of scape seed, 15g of orange red, 10g of licorice.

　　Dosage: 1 dose daily, 400ml in water, divided into 2 doses, 1 in the morning and 1 in the evening.

　　Recommended Chinese patent medicine: Xuanlung Defeat Poison Granules

　　Dosage: Take 1 sachet with boiling water, 2 times a day. Duration of treatment: 714 days, or as directed by physician.

　　(2) Cold and dampness blocking the lung

　　Clinical manifestations: low fever, body heat, or no fever, dry cough, little sputum, tiredness, chest tightness, abdominal abdominal plagiocephaly, or vomiting, loose stools. The tongue is light or light red, with white or white greasy coating and moist pulse.

　　Recommended prescription: Atractylodes macrocephala 15g, Pericarpium Citri Reticulatae 10g, Phellodendron macrocephala 10g, Herba Ephedra 6g, Rhizoma Qiangwu 10g, Radix et Rhizoma Ginger 10g, Betel nut 10g.

　　Dosage: 1 dose daily, 400ml in water, divided into 2 doses, 1 in the morning and 1 in the evening.

　　(3) Epidemic and poison with dryness

　　Clinical manifestations: chills, fever, muscle aches, runny nose, dry cough, sore throat, itchy throat, dry mouth, dry throat, constipation, pale tongue with little fluid, thin white or dry coating, floating and tight pulse.

　　Recommended prescription: Xuan lung moistening and detoxifying formula

　　Basic formula: Ephedra 6g, Almond 10g, Radix Bupleurum 12g, Salvia 15g.

　　Mai Dong 15g, Xuan Shen 15g, Bai Zhi 10g, Qiang Wu 15g, Sheng Ma 8g, Sang Ye 15g, Scutellaria Baicalensis 10g, Sang Bai Pi 15g, Sheng Shi Fa 20g.

　　Dosage: 1 dose daily, 400ml in water, divided into 2 doses, 1 in the morning and 1 in the evening.

　　Recommended Chinese patent medicine: Jinhua Qingxian granules, Lianhua Qingxian capsule (granules) Jinhua Qingxian granules: take with boiling water, 12 sachets once, 3 times a day. The course of treatment is 57 days.

　　Lianhua Qingfei Granules: Take orally. 1 sachet once, 3 times a day. The course of treatment is 710 days.

　　How to take Lianhua Qingfei Capsules: Take orally. Take 4 capsules once, 3 times a day.

　　Recommended acupuncture points for acupuncture treatment: Neiguan, Kong most, Quchi, Qihai, Yinlingquan, and Zhonggui. Acupuncture method: 3 acupoints are selected each time, and the acupuncture is performed by the method of flattening, tonifying and diarrhea, and the acupuncture is retained for 30 minutes, once a day.

　　2.4 Heavy Duty

　　(1) Epidemic toxin closed lung evidence

　　Clinical manifestations: fever, red face, cough, yellow and sticky sputum, or blood in the sputum, shortness of breath, fatigue and lethargy, dry and bitter mouth, nausea and inappetence, irregular bowel movements, short and red urine. The tongue is red, the coating is yellow and greasy, and the pulse is slippery.

　　Recommended prescription: Dampness and Detoxification Formula

　　Basic formula: Raw ephedra 6g, almond 9g, raw gypsum 15g, licorice 3g, patchouli 10g (later down), thick park 10g, atractylodes 15g, grass fruit 10g, fenugreek 9g, poria 15g, raw rhubarb 5g (later down), raw astragalus 10g, scape seed 10g, red peony 10g.

　　Dosage: 12 doses per day, 100ml200ml in water, 24 times a day, orally or intranasally.

　　Recommended Traditional Chinese Medicine: Dampness and Poison Granules

　　Dosage: Take 2 sachets with boiling water, 2 times a day; or as directed by a physician.

　　(2) Evidence of burnt gas and burnt bodily fluids

　　Clinical manifestations: great fever and thirst, shortness of breath, delirium, dizziness, misalignment of vision, rash, vomiting blood, epistaxis, or convulsions of the extremities. The tongue is reddish with little or no coating, and the pulse is sunken and fine, or floating and large.

　　Suggested prescription: Sheng Yu 3060g (first decoction), Zhi Mu 30g, Sheng Di 30

　　60g, 30g of water hyacinth (first decoction), 30g of red peony, 30g of basilica, 15g of forsythia, 15g of tannin, 6g of yellow lily, 12g of bamboo leaf, 15g of scape seed, 6g of raw licorice.

　　Dosage: 1 dose per day, decoction in water, first decoction of gypsum, water hyacinth, then the next medicine, 100ml200ml each time, 24 times a day, oral or nasal feeding.

　　Recommended Chinese patent medicines: Xiyamping injection, Hemopride injection, Heat poisoning injection

　　The drugs can be used in combination with Phlegm Fever Clear Injection, Phlegm Fever Clear Injection and Awakening Brain Jing Injection. Drugs with similar efficacy can be selected one according to individual situation, or two can be used in combination according to clinical symptoms. Chinese medicine injections can be used in combination with Chinese medicine tonics.

　　Recommended acupuncture points for acupuncture treatment: dazhi, lung yu, spleen yu, tai xi, ling yu, tai chong. Acupuncture method: 35 acupuncture points are selected each time, and the dorsal points are combined with the limb points.

　　2.5 Critical type of internal closure and external detachment evidence

　　Clinical manifestations: dyspnea, shortness of breath or need for mechanical ventilation, with dizziness, irritability, cold sweating, purple tongue, thick and greasy or dry coating, floating and large pulse without root.

　　Recommended prescription: Ginseng 15g, Black Shun Tablet 10g (first decoction), Cornus officinalis 15g, take Suhe Xiang Pill or Angong Niuhuang Pill.

　　For mechanical ventilation with constipation or constipation, raw rhubarb can be used 5

　　In case of human-machine dyssynchrony, raw rhubarb 510g and mannitol 510g can be used in the presence of sedative and inotropic agents.

　　Recommended Chinese patent medicines: Blood Bijou Injection, Heat Poisoning Injection, Phlegm Heat Qing Injection, Awakening Brain Jing Injection, Ginseng Injection, Raw Pulse Injection, Ginseng and Mai Injection. Drugs with similar efficacy can be selected according to individual conditions, or two can be used in combination according to clinical symptoms. Chinese medicine injections can be used in combination with Chinese medicine tonics.

　　Note: Recommended use of heavy and critical herbal injections

　　The use of Chinese medicine injections follows the principle of starting with small doses and gradually adjusting them according to the drug instructions, and the recommended usage is as follows.

　　Viral infection or combined with mild bacterial infection: 0.9% sodium chloride injection 250ml plus Xiyampin injection lOOmg twice a day, or 0.9% sodium chloride injection 250ml plus Heatinin injection 20ml, or 0.9% sodium chloride injection 250ml plus Phlegm Fever Qing injection 40ml twice a day.

　　High fever with impaired consciousness: 0.9% sodium chloride injection 250ml plus 20ml of brain-awakening injection, twice a day.

　　Systemic inflammatory response syndrome or/and multi-organ failure: 0.9% sodium chloride injection 250ml plus blood purity injection 100ml twice a day.

　　Immunomodulation: 250ml of glucose injection plus 100ml of ginseng and wheat injection or 2060ml of raw vein injection, twice a day.

　　Recommended acupuncture points: Tai Xi, Tan Zhong, Guan Yuan, Bai Hui, Su San Li and Su Xiao. Acupuncture method: select the above acupuncture points, acupuncture with flat tonic and flat diarrhea, retain acupuncture for 30 minutes, once a day.

　　2.6 Recovery period

　　(1) Lung and spleen qi deficiency

　　Clinical manifestations: shortness of breath, tiredness and fatigue, poor appetite and vomiting, fullness, weakness of stools, loose stools. The tongue is pale and fat, and the coating is white and greasy.

　　Recommended prescription: Fructus Semen 9g, Pericarpium Citri Reticulatae 10g, Radix Codonopsis Pilosulae 15g, Radix Astragali 30g, Rhizoma Atractylodes Macrocephalae 10g, Poria 15g, Hordeum Vulgare 10g, Radix et Rhizoma Saxifraga 6g (later), Glycyrrhiza Uralensis 6g

　　Dosage: 1 dose daily, 400ml in water, divided into 2 doses, 1 in the morning and 1 in the evening.

　　(2) Qi and Yin deficiency evidence

　　Clinical manifestations: weakness, shortness of breath, dry mouth, thirst, palpitations, sweating, na

　　Poor, low or no fever, dry cough with little sputum. Dry tongue with little fluid, thin or weak pulse. Recommended prescription: 10g each of North and South Salvia, 15g of Medlar, 6g of American Ginseng, 6g of Schisandra, 15g of raw gypsum, 10g of light bamboo leaf, 10g of mulberry leaf, 15g of rhizome, 15g of Salvia, 6g of raw licorice.

　　Dosage: 1 dose daily, 400ml in water, divided into 2 doses, 1 in the morning and 1 in the evening.

　　Recommended acupuncture points for acupuncture treatment: Foot San Li (moxibustion), Bai Hui, Tai Xi. Acupuncture

　　Acupuncture method: select the above acupuncture points, acupuncture flat tonic and flat diarrhea, retain the needles for 30 minutes, once a day. Acupuncture points: Dazhi, Lung Yu, Spleen Yu, and Kong Shen, each time for 40 minutes, once a day.

　　3. Herbal treatment for children

　　The characteristics of TCM symptoms and core pathogenesis of pediatric patients are basically the same as those of adults, so treatment should be based on the TCM treatment plan for adults, combined with the clinical symptoms and physiological characteristics of pediatric patients, and used according to the evidence. The treatment is based on the adult TCM treatment plan, combined with the clinical symptoms and physiological characteristics of pediatric patients.

　　(x) Early recovery.

　　We focus on early rehabilitation interventions for patients with novel coronavirus pneumonia, and actively carry out rehabilitation training and interventions for patients with respiratory function, somatic function and psychological disorders, in order to restore physical fitness, body mass and immunity as much as possible.

　　XII. Nursing

　　According to the patient's condition, the nursing priorities were defined and basic nursing care was done. In critically ill patients, the patient's vital signs and state of consciousness were closely observed, with emphasis on monitoring oxygen saturation. In critically ill patients, 24-hour continuous ECG monitoring is performed, and the patient's heart rate and oxygen saturation are measured every hour.

　　Respiratory rate, blood pressure, oxygen saturation (SpO2), and temperature are measured and recorded every 4 hours. Reasonable and correct use of intravenous access, and keep all kinds of lines open and properly fixed. Change the position of bedridden patients regularly to prevent pressure injury. According to the nursing

　　The patient should be given proper care for non-invasive mechanical ventilation, invasive mechanical ventilation, artificial airway, prone ventilation, sedation and analgesia, and ECMO treatment. Pay special attention to patient oral care and fluid intake and output management, and prevent misaspiration in patients with invasive mechanical ventilation. The psychological status of awake patients was assessed in a timely manner, and psychological care was provided.

　　XIII. Discharge management, discharge criteria and precautions after discharge management and discharge

　　(A) the release of isolation management standards.

　　Mild cases with two consecutive novel coronavirus nucleic acid tests with Ct values ≥ 35 for both N and ORF genes (fluorometric PCR method with a cut-off value of 40 and a sampling interval of at least 24 hours) or two consecutive negative novel coronavirus nucleic acid tests (fluorometric PCR method with a cut-off value below 35 and a sampling interval of at least 24 hours) may be released from isolation management.

　　(ii) Discharge criteria.

　　1. the body temperature returns to normal for more than 3 days.

　　2. significant improvement in respiratory symptoms.

　　3. lung imaging showing significant improvement in acute exudative lesions.

　　4. two consecutive novel coronavirus nucleic acid test N gene and ORF gene Ct value are ≥ 35 (fluorescent quantitative PCR method, the threshold value of 40, sampling time interval of at least 24 hours), or two consecutive novel coronavirus nucleic acid test negative (fluorescent quantitative PCR method, the threshold value of less than 35, sampling time interval of at least 24 hours).

　　Those who meet the above conditions can be discharged.

　　(iii) Discharge from isolation management, post-discharge precautions.

　　Continue home health monitoring for 7 days after discharge or discharge, wear a mask, live in a single room with good ventilation if possible, reduce close contact with family members, share meals, do hand hygiene, and avoid going outside.

　　XIV. Principles of transit

　　The work plan for the transfer of people infected with the new coronavirus (Version 2) is implemented in accordance with the Medical Treatment Group of the State Council's Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism for Response to the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Outbreak.

　　Fifteen, infection prevention and control in medical institutions

　　Strictly in accordance with the requirements of the "Technical Guidelines for Prevention and Control of Novel Coronavirus Infections in Medical Institutions (Third Edition)" issued by the National Health and Wellness Commission.

　　XVI. Prevention

　　(i) Novel coronavirus vaccination.

　　Novel coronavirus vaccination can reduce the incidence of novel coronavirus infection and disease, and is an effective means of reducing the incidence of serious illness and death. Those who are eligible for booster vaccination should receive booster vaccination in a timely manner.

　　(ii) general preventive measures.

　　Maintain good personal and environmental hygiene, balanced nutrition, moderate exercise, adequate rest, and avoid overexertion. Improve health literacy, adopt hygienic habits and lifestyles such as "one meter line", washing hands regularly, wearing masks and the public chopsticks system, and cover your nose and mouth when sneezing or coughing. Keep the room well ventilated, and do your personal protection scientifically.

　　Promptly seek medical attention at a fever clinic if you develop respiratory symptoms. Those who have recently been to high-risk areas or have a history of contact with people infected with novel coronavirus should be proactively tested for novel coronavirus nucleic acid.
