1, Zhong Nanshan: Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, once again in danger, the command of the pro-quest, daring to speak out, a household name, a call to arms, all the people do not move, is an academician, but also a warrior, but also a national warrior.

2、Lilanjuan: Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, has indelible merits to win the battle, the first person who proposed "Wuhan sealing the city", fought in the front line of the fight against the epidemic, and led the team to develop the vaccine.
3. Chen Wei: Academician of Chinese Academy of Engineering, biochemist, virus terminator, shortens nucleic acid testing time and speeds up the confirmation of diagnosis.
4, Zhang Wenhong: Shanghai medical treatment team leader, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, director of the Department of Infection, more like a highly skilled psychotherapist, he was flirting with people while healing the trauma brought to people's hearts, "What is the most effective drug? Human immunity", "You are a warrior even if you are isolated at home, the virus is smothering you", "All are singing the praises of doctors, the complete statement should be medical personnel", "Fire prevention and anti-theft prevention of colleagues " became a famous phrase in the fight against the epidemic.
5, Zhang Jixian: Wuhan Central Hospital doctors, the first person to report the epidemic, fighting on the front line of the fight against the epidemic, the urgent needs of patients, "I have shed all the tears of my life this time!"
6、Wang Chen: Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, the country's leading expert in respiratory and critical care medicine, and Zhong Lao, the same name, boldly proposed the idea of building square cabin hospitals, so that Wuhan in just 24 hours, quickly built three "square cabin hospitals", adding more than 4,000 beds, which is more than four times the number of beds in Vulcan Hill Hospital.
7. Zhang Boli: Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, giving full play to the unique advantages of Chinese medicine, has improved the cure rate of moderate and mild patients and reduced the mortality rate of severe and critical patients.
8, Zhang Dingyu: President of Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital, epidemic sniper, suffering from acromegaly still fighting in the front line of the fight against the epidemic. "I have to run faster to win the time; I have to run faster to snatch more patients from the hands of the virus." This tough guy, this sniper has only one target in his eyes - the new coronavirus, sniping, sniping, sniping again.
9、Zhang Sibing: President of Wuhan Vulcan Mountain Hospital and Director of the General Hospital of the People's Liberation Army, he and his hospital achieved three "zero infections" in the fight against SARS in 2003, assisted in the construction of Xiaotangshan Hospital, and was assigned to fight against the epidemic this time, he wanted to improve the treatment process, because the process is very important.
10、Wang Xinghuan: President of Wuhan Lei Shen Shan Hospital and President of Wuhan University Central South Hospital. "Everything for the sake of the patient" is Wang Xinghuan's motto. "Try to develop different programs for different patients, so that treatment can be individualized and personalized." As of Feb. 16, the total number of patients admitted to Raytheon Hill Hospital was nearly 600.
11. Liu Daqing (July 1962 - January 28, 2020), male, member of the CPC, joined the army in 1979 and transferred from the army to join the public security work in March 1983. Before his death, he was a sergeant of Jilin North Station Police Station of Jilin Public Security Bureau of Shenyang Railway.
At 3:00 on January 28, 2020, Liu Daqing, who was on duty at the front line of the prevention and control of the new coronavirus infection pneumonia, suffered a sudden subarachnoid hemorrhage and was rushed to the hospital by his colleagues, and died at the age of 57. In February 2020, the Ministry of Public Security posthumously awarded the title of Second Class Hero. 
12, Zhang Xinzhong (September 1964 - January 25, 2020), male, Han nationality, member of the CPC, college education, university degree, member of the CPC, December 1983 to participate in work, September 2000 to participate in public security work, second-class sergeant, second-class police inspector police rank. He was the director of Dongming County Detention Center in Heze City, Shandong Province. [1-2] 
At about 22:00 on January 25, 2020, Zhang Xinzhong died of a heart attack on his way to the county bureau.
13, Cui Wei (August 1971 - January 16, 2020), male, Han nationality, Henan Province, Taikang City, joined the army in March 1989, joined the Communist Party of China in March 1992. October 2004 from the army to work in Linyi City Detention Center, has been engaged in arraignment, meeting, correctional, patrol control, etc., October 2014 rotation exchange to the Municipal Public Security Bureau Public Security Police At 11:39 on January 16, 2020, Cui Wei, a civilian police officer of Linyi City Public Security Bureau, collapsed on the job due to continuous work and overexertion and suffered a sudden myocardial infarction.
14, Jiang Jijun: January 23, 2022, Jiangsu Taizhou City People's Hospital Infection Department doctor Jiang Jijun in the fever clinic after checking the room, due to respiratory and cardiac arrest resuscitation failed to die, at the age of 52.
15, Liang Wudong: On January 25, 2022, Dr. Liang Wudong, an otolaryngologist at the Hubei Provincial Hospital of Integrative Medicine (Xinhua Hospital), died at the age of 62 at 7:00 a.m. on January 25.
16, Mao like Hong: January 25, 2022, Fujian Province, Nanping City, Pucheng County Xian Yang Town Center Health Center, deputy director of Mao like Hong stationed at the high-speed checkpoint to detect the temperature of the occupants of passing vehicles, was a car accidentally hit the gas pedal as the brake, Mao like Hong was rescued that night and died in the line of duty, at the age of 52.
17, package long life: early in the morning of January 26, 2022, Inner Mongolia Xing'an League Koyou former banner Tsarsen town Shaligengacha 50-year-old village doctor package long life, born with physical disabilities, but adhere to the front line of the fight against epidemics. After checking and testing the 14th person returning to his hometown, he was ready to go back to the health room to take a break, but suddenly had a cerebral hemorrhage and collapsed on the road, and later passed away after the rescue.

