Epidemiology is the study of the distribution of diseases and health conditions in the population and the factors that influence them, as well as the study of strategies and measures to prevent diseases and promote health.
Incidence: The frequency of new cases of a disease in a certain population over a certain period of time.
Attack rate: The incidence rate in a limited area within a short period of time, applicable to local outbreaks of disease
Morbidity rate: Morbidity rate can be calculated separately according to different characteristics, called morbidity rate.
Prevalenceprevalence: the proportion of old and new cases of a disease in a certain population at a specific time. There are two categories: point-in-time and period-in-time
Mortality rate: The frequency of death from a disease (or from all causes) in a certain population over a certain period of time.
Mortality rates: Mortality rates were calculated separately by different characteristics (e.g., age, sex, occupation, etc.)
Case fatality rate: The proportion of all patients suffering from a disease who die from that disease in a certain period of time.
Potential years of life lost (PYLL): The sum of the difference between the life expectancy and the actual age of death of a population in a certain age group who died from a certain disease, i.e., the loss of life due to death, is an important index to evaluate the health level of the population,
Disability-adjusted life year DALY: The total number of healthy life years lost from onset to death, including life years lost due to premature death YLL and healthy life years lost due to disability YLD.
Sporadic: the incidence was at a general level over the years, with no significant association between cases in terms of time and place of onset
Outbreak: The sudden appearance of many of the same patients in a short period of time in a local area or collective unit, 
Epidemic epidemic: refers to a disease that significantly exceeds the historical level of incidence of the disease in a given area (3-10 times)
pandemic: A disease that sometimes spreads rapidly across a province, country, or continent, with incidence levels exceeding those that would have been prevalent under certain historical conditions in that location.
Cross-sectional analysis: mainly analyzes the difference or change of morbidity and mortality of different age groups in the same era (cross-section) or different era (cross-section).
Age period cohort analysis: This is a method to analyze the role of age, era and cohort exposure experience on the change of disease frequency and its magnitude.
Short-term fluctuationsrapid fluctuations: Also known as point-in-time epidemics, short-term observations counted by days, weeks, and months. The meaning is similar to outbreak and is often used for larger populations.
Seasonal variations:The phenomenon that the disease shows an increased incidence in a certain season each year.
Cyclic change: A condition in which the frequency of a disease changes regularly over a fairly regular interval of time.
Secular trend: A continuous observation of disease dynamics over several years or even decades, in which changes in disease pathogens, clinical manifestations, morbidity, mortality, or their simultaneous occurrence are examined.
Endemic diseases: Diseases that are relatively stable and frequently occurring in specific areas. Immigrant epidemiology: To examine the differences in morbidity and mortality of diseases among immigrants, local residents of immigrant countries, and populations of origin, to explore the clues of the causes of diseases, and to distinguish the magnitude of the role of genetic or environmental factors.
Status study: A description of the relationship between a variable (factor) of interest and a disease or health condition in a population at a specific point in time (or period) and within a specific range.
Census census: refers to a specific point in time or period, a specific range of the entire population are the study of the line ah survey.
Sampling survey: refers to a random sampling method, a representative sample of the population at a specific point in time, a specific range of the survey, the sample statistics to estimate the overall parameters of the range.
Simple random sampling: from the total of N objects, using a lottery or other random method to select n objects, forming a sample, the probability of each object in the total being drawn is equal
Systematic sampling: that is, mechanical sampling, according to a certain order, mechanical sampling method to draw a unit every few units. Stratified sampling: The total is first divided into sub-totals according to certain characteristics, and then a simple random sample is taken from each layer to form a sample.
Whole-group sampling: The total population is divided into several groups, and some of these groups are selected as observation units to form the sample. Multi-stage sampling: The sampling process is carried out in stages, and the sampling method used in each stage is often different, i.e., a combination of various sampling methods is used, which is commonly used in large epidemiological surveys.
Ecological study: ecological study is a type of descriptive study in which the relationship between an exposure factor and a disease is analyzed by describing the exposure status and frequency of the disease in different populations, using the population as the unit of observation and analysis,
Cohort study: It is an observational study that divides the population into different subgroups according to whether they are exposed to a suspected factor and its degree of exposure, tracks their respective outcomes, and compares the differences in the frequency of outcomes between different subgroups to determine whether there is a causal association between the exposure factor and the outcome and the size of the association.
Exposure: A subject has been exposed to a substance to be studied, has a characteristic or behavior to be studied.
Fixed cohortfixed cohort: means that the population all enter the cohort at a fixed time or within a short period of time, after which they are followed up and observed until the end of the observation period, members do not withdraw for reasons other than the ending time, and no new members are added, that is, the cohort remains relatively fixed during the observation period.
Dynamic queue dynamic cohort: that is, after a certain queue is determined, the original queue members can constantly exit, and new observation objects can join at any time.
Standardized mortality ratio SMR: The number of morbidity or mortality in the exposed group was used to calculate a standardized ratio to the expected morbidity or mortality figure calculated from the total population rate. A ratio greater than 1 indicates that it caused or contributed to the occurrence of the outcome, less than 1 indicates that the exposure prevented or reduced the occurrence of the outcome, and equal to 1 means that the exposure was not associated with the disease.
Internal control: A study population was selected, of which those exposed to the studied factors were the exposed group and the rest of the non-exposed subjects were the control group.
External controls: When selecting an occupational or special exposed population as the exposed population, it is often not possible to select a control group from these populations, and it is often necessary to find a control group outside the population, so it is called an external control.
Cumulative incidence: If the study population is large and stable, the cumulative incidence of a disease can be calculated by using the population size at the beginning of the observation as the denominator and the number of incidences (or deaths) during the entire observation period as the numerator.
Incidence density: The incidence rate is calculated by observing human hours as the denominator, and the rate calculated by using human hours is called with instantaneous frequency.
Standardized proportional mortality ratio (SPMR): The expected number of deaths for a cause of disease was obtained by multiplying the proportion of deaths for a cause of disease in the whole population by the actual number of deaths in a unit, and then calculating the ratio of the actual number of deaths to the expected number of deaths.
Relative risk RR: is the ratio of the risk of the exposed group to the risk of the control group. rR=le/l o
Attributed risk AR: is the absolute value of the difference between the incidence rate in the exposed group and the incidence rate in the control group. ar=le-l o
Attributed risk percentage AR%:The fraction of morbidity or mortality in the exposed population attributable to exposure as a percentage of total morbidity or mortality.
Population attributable risk PAR % PAR%: refers to the fraction of total population morbidity attributable to exposure,3PAR% refers to PAR as a percentage of total population total morbidity (or mortality).
Case-control study: The case study was conducted by using diagnosed patients as cases and non-diseased but comparable individuals as controls, collecting the history of exposure to various possible risk factors through questioning, laboratory tests or review of medical history, measuring and comparing the proportion of exposure to each factor in the case group and the control group, and evaluating the statistical association between the factors and the disease by statistical tests. The statistical association between the factors and the disease was evaluated by statistical tests. The effect of various biases was assessed after etiology to infer the risk factors and thus validate the etiological hypothesis.
Matching: The control is required to be consistent with the case on certain factors or characteristics, with the aim of eliminating the interference of matching factors when comparing the two groups.
Over-matching: By including unnecessary works in the matching, trying to make the cases and controls as consistent as possible, information may be lost in vain, making the work more difficult and reducing the efficiency of the study.
Admission rate bias Berkson bias: When hospital patients are used as cases and controls, because the control is a part of the hospital patients, rather than a random sample of the whole target population; and because of the two-way selectivity, the cases in the case group are not a random sample of all patients, it is inevitable to generate bias, especially because the admission rates of various diseases are different, resulting in systematic differences in some characteristics between the case group and the control group. The difference between the case and control groups is systematic.
Current cases, new cases bias Neyman bias: If the respondents are selected from current cases, much of the information obtained may be related only to survival and not necessarily to the onset of the disease, thus overestimating the etiological role of certain exposure factors. Or survivors of a disease may have changed their lifestyle habits and thus reduced the level of a risk factor, or they may have exaggerated or reduced certain characteristics of their lifestyle habits when they were investigated, leading to an inaccurate association of a factor with the disease.
Recall biasrecall bias: systematic errors in conclusions due to distortion or incompleteness of respondents' memory.
Confounding factor: When studying the association between a factor and a disease, the association between the factor studied and the disease is obscured or exaggerated by the influence of an external factor that is both a constraint to the disease and associated with the exposure factor studied.
Hawthorne effect: refers to the effect of an ongoing study on the person being studied.
Placebo effect: A positive psychological effect that is manifested in some subjects due to their dependence on medicine, which can even affect the physiological effect.
Double blind double blind: neither the study subjects nor the researchers giving the intervention or outcome assessment are aware of the experimental groupings, but the study designer arranges and controls the entire experiment.
Triple blind: The person responsible for data collection and analysis was also blinded on the basis of double blind. Noncompliance noncomplince: A study in which the subjects do not comply with the requirements set by the experiment after randomization.
Randomized controlled trials RCTs: are prospective, experimental controlled studies conducted in a population to evaluate the effects of medical interventions.
Class experiments:are experiments that cannot be done in randomized groups or without parallel controls.
Screening: The use of quick and easy experiments, tests or other methods to identify individuals in the healthy population who may have diseases or defects, but are apparently healthy, from those who may not have diseases.
Reliability: The degree of stability in obtaining the same result when the same subject is repeatedly measured with a measurement tool under the same conditions
ROC curve: A curve obtained by plotting the true positive rate and the false positive rate, which reflects the relationship between sensitivity and specificity.
Combined tests: When performing screening tests, multiple screening tests can be used to examine the same subject in order to improve the sensitivity or specificity of the screening test and increase the benefit of the screening test.
Etiology: Factors that increase the probability of developing the disease in a population are considered to be the cause. They are generally referred to as risk factors in epidemiology.
Rotational model: Based on the epidemiological triangle, the environment is further divided into biological, physicochemical and social environments, and the host also includes the genetic kernel, while the kinetic factors are no longer listed separately.
Statistical association: the relationship between exposure and disease, excluding chance errors.
Surveillance of diseases: means long-term, continuous, systematic collection of information on the dynamic distribution of diseases and their influencing factors, and after analysis, reporting and feedback of information to all those who should know, so that timely interventions can be taken and their effects evaluated.
Passive surveillance: lower-level units routinely report monitoring data and information, while higher-level units passively receive it.
Active surveillance: According to special needs, the higher-level units personally investigate and collect or require lower-level units to collect information in strict accordance with regulations.
Horizontal transmission: The mutual transmission of pathogens from person to person in the external environment by means of transmission factors.
Vertical transmission: Transmission of pathogens from mother to offspring, or mother-to-child transmission.
Epidemic focus: The area that can be reached by the spread of the infectious agent and its discharge to the surrounding area is called the epidemic focus.
Epidemic site: A small area or a single source of infection is called an epidemic site.
Infected area: a larger area of the epidemic or a number of epidemic sites in a row is called an infected area.
Epidemic process: The process of occurrence and spread of infectious diseases in the population, which requires the interaction and interconnection of three links: the source of infection, the transmission route and the susceptible population.
Infectious process: refers to the process of interaction and struggle between the pathogen and the organism after it has invaded the organism.
Retention test: the contact of infectious diseases in category A detention test, limiting the scope of their activities, requiring the implementation of consultation, testing and treatment in designated places
Medical observation: Category B and C infectious disease contacts, under normal work and study conditions, receive medical examination, pathogenic examination, etc.
Disinfection of epidemic focus: Disinfection of existing or formerly infectious sites.
Current disinfection: Disinfection when the source of infection is still present at the source of the epidemic, timely disinfection of excretions, secretions, or contaminated objects and places of the source of infection.
Terminal disinfection: When the source of the infection is healed, died or left after the thorough disinfection of the source of the epidemic, the purpose is to completely eliminate the source of the pathogens spread in the external environment.
Artificial autoimmunization: A measure to prevent the occurrence of infectious diseases by inoculating the body with vaccines to produce specific immunity.
Artificial passive immunity: The body is passively protected by the injection of serum or cytokines containing specific antibodies into the organism.
Cold chain: The vaccine is sent from the production unit, kept in cold storage and transported to the primary health institution by cold storage step by step until the vaccination is given, and the whole process is properly refrigerated according to the requirements of vaccine storage to keep the vaccine's potency from being damaged.
The three levels of epidemiological research content :disease, injury, and health.
The three stages of epidemiological research content: revealing the phenomenon, identifying the causes, and providing measures.
The three categories of epidemiological research content: descriptive, analytical, and experimental.
The three basic methods of epidemiological research content: observation, experimental method, and mathematical and rational method.
Epidemiological characteristics:characteristics of groups, characteristics of comparisons, characteristics of probability theory and mathematical statistics, characteristics of psychosocial, characteristics of prevention-oriented, characteristics of development.
The application of prevalence: ① is a common indicator for cross-sectional studies ② to reflect the prevalence of chronic diseases with a long course and its impact on the health of the population ③ can provide a scientific basis for the planning of medical facilities, estimating the turnover of hospital beds, the need for health facilities and manpower, and the investment of medical expenses.
Characteristics of cohort studies :They are observational, set up control groups, cause and effect, and can confirm the causal link between exposure and outcome. The :test the etiological hypothesis, evaluate the preventive effect.
Selection of exposed populations:Occupational populations, specially exposed populations, general populations, organized groups of people.
Selection of control populations: internal control, external control, total population control, and multiple control.
Characteristics of case-control studies: retrospective, cause-and-effect, observational method, and no verification of etiology.
Case selection: The main focus is to determine the criteria for judging patients and how to obtain patients who meet the criteria. Generally, community sources are preferable and representative, but difficult to implement. Using hospital-sourced cases can be cost-saving, easy to obtain, good cooperation, more complete and accurate information, but prone to selection bias.
Control sources: ① other cases diagnosed in the same or multiple medical institutions ② cases of neighbors or in the same neighborhood, residential area of healthy people or non-patients ③ social groups in the population of non-patients or healthy people ④ community population of non-patients or healthy people ⑤ cases of spouses, siblings, relatives, classmates or colleagues neighbors
Epidemiological characteristics of the experiment :It is a prospective study, randomized group, with a balanced and comparable control group, and with an intervention.
Types of experimental epidemiology:Clinical trials, field trials, community trials.
Principles of experimental epidemiology: (1) Randomization grouping: simple, stratified, whole group randomization. (2) The way to establish controls ① The main factors affecting the study effect: natural history of the disease, Hawthorne effect, placebo effect. (2) The way to set up controls: standard method control, placebo control, self control, crossover control. (3) Application of blinding method.
Factors affecting the reliability of the screening test: ① biological variation of the subject, the same subject at different times to obtain clinical measurements fluctuate ② observer: due to different levels of skill between measurers, the same measurer at different times, different levels of conscientiousness, biological sensory differences, expected bias, etc. can lead to inconsistent results of repeated measurements ③ laboratory conditions: repeated measurements, the measuring instrument is not (3) Laboratory conditions: when repeated measurements, the measurement instrument is not stable, the test method itself is not stable, etc. may cause measurement errors.
Etiology and causal inference criteria:temporal order of association, strength of association, reproducibility of association, plausibility of association, and strength of causal argument of the study.
The epidemiological significance and use of the incubation period: ① according to the length of the incubation period to determine the patient's time of infection to further trace the source of infection, to determine the route of transmission ② according to the length of the incubation period to determine the duration of the contact stay, quarantine or medical observation, generally with the average incubation period plus 1 to 2 days, the serious danger of infectious diseases can be the longest incubation period to stay or quarantine ③ according to the length of the incubation period can determine the immunization ③ According to the length of the incubation period can determine the time of immunization ④ according to the incubation period can evaluate the effectiveness of preventive measures. ⑤ The length of the incubation period can affect the epidemiological characteristics of the disease
The significance of the infectious period: the entire period of the patient's discharge of pathogens is called the infectious period, which is an important basis for determining the duration of isolation of patients with infectious diseases, and to a certain extent, also affects the epidemiological characteristics of the disease.
The epidemiological characteristics of airborne infectious diseases: ① widespread transmission, high incidence ② high incidence in winter and spring ③ children and adolescents are more common ④ in the population without immunization, the incidence is cyclical ⑤ high incidence in areas with crowded housing and high population density.
The conditions for the elimination of the source of the epidemic: ① the source of infection is removed or no longer discharged pathogens ② through various measures to eliminate the source of infection discharged into the external environment ③ all susceptible contacts after the longest incubation period of the disease did not appear new cases or proved not infected.
